1)CSS Fonts
Font Selection is Important
Choosing the right font has a huge impact on how the readers experience a website.
The right font can create a strong identity for your brand.
Using a font that is easy to read is important. The font adds value to your text. It is also important to choose the correct color and text size for the font.

Generic Font Families
1)Serif fonts have a small stroke at the edges of each letter. They create a sense of formality and elegance.
2)Sans-serif fonts have clean lines (no small strokes attached). They create a modern and minimalistic look.
3)Monospace fonts - here all the letters have the same fixed width. They create a mechanical look. 
4)Cursive fonts imitate human handwriting.
5)Fantasy fonts are decorative/playful fonts.

serif font :- ex. Times New Roman
sans serif ex. Arial 
Monospace ex. Courier New
Cursive ex. Brush Script MT
Fantasy ex. Papyrus 


In CSS, we use the font-family property to specify the font of a text.
The font-family property should hold several font names as a "fallback" system, to ensure maximum compatibility between browsers/operating systems. 
Start with the font you want, and end with a generic family (to let the browser pick a similar font in the generic family, if no other fonts are available). 
The font names should be separated with a comma. 

What are Web Safe Fonts?
Web safe fonts are fonts that are universally installed across all browsers and devices.


Fallback Fonts
However, there are no 100% completely web safe fonts. There is always a chance that a font is not found or is not installed properly.
Therefore, it is very important to always use fallback fonts.
This means that you should add a list of similar "backup fonts" in the font-family property. If the first font does not work, the browser will try the next one, and the next one, and so on. Always end the list with a generic font family name.



Best Web Safe Fonts for HTML and CSS
The following list are the best web safe fonts for HTML and CSS:

Arial (sans-serif)
Verdana (sans-serif)
Tahoma (sans-serif)
Trebuchet MS (sans-serif)
Times New Roman (serif)
Georgia (serif)
Garamond (serif)
Courier New (monospace)
Brush Script MT (cursive)


2) Font Style
The font-style property is mostly used to specify italic text.
This property has three values:
normal - The text is shown normally
italic - The text is shown in italics
oblique - The text is "leaning" (oblique is very similar to italic, but less supported)

3) Font Weight
The font-weight property specifies the weight of a font.

4) Font Variant
The font-variant property specifies whether or not a text should be displayed in a small-caps font.

5) Font Size
The font-size property sets the size of the text

Font Pairing Rules
Here are some basic rules to create great font pairings:

1. Complement
It is always safe to find font pairings that complement one another.

A great font combination should harmonize, without being too similar or too different.

2. Use Font Superfamilies
A font superfamily is a set of fonts designed to work well together. So, using different fonts within the same superfamily is safe.

For example, the Lucida superfamily contains the following fonts: Lucida Sans, Lucida Serif, Lucida Typewriter Sans, Lucida Typewriter Serif and Lucida Math.

3. Contrast is King
Two fonts that are too similar will often conflict. However, contrasts, done the right way, brings out the best in each font.

Example: Combining serif with sans serif is a well known combination.

A strong superfamily includes both serif and sans serif variations of the same font (e.g. Lucida and Lucida Sans).

4. Choose Only One Boss
One font should be the boss. This establishes a hierarchy for the fonts on your page. This can be achieved by varying the size, weight and color.

examples.
1) font-family: Verdana, sans-serif;  for in body for text and for heading font-family: Georgia, serif; 
2) font-family: Garamond, serif;  for in body for text and for heading font-family: Helvetica, sans-serif;
3) font-family: "Open Sans", sans-serif;  for in body for text and for heading font-family: Merriweather, serif;
4) font-family: Lora, serif;  for in body for text and for heading font-family: Ubuntu, sans-serif;
5) font-family: Rubik, sans-serif;  for in body for text and for heading font-family: Spectral, serif;




The font property is a shorthand property for:

font-style
font-variant
font-weight
font-size/line-height   
font-family


ex. font: italic small-caps bold 12px/30px Georgia, serif;

